---
title: "The Enemy within: How Internal Forces are Undermining the NCC"
excerpt: "A detailed insider response to recent media allegations, revealing how false narratives and internal sabotage are threatening the integrity of the Nigerian Communications Commission."
category: "Governance"
tags: ["NCC", "Nigeria", "Public Sector", "Reform", "Media", "Institutional Integrity"]
author: "Emmanuel Adebayo"
published: "2025-06-12T08:00:00Z"
updated: "2025-06-12T08:00:00Z"
featured: true
trending: true
image: "/articles/images/ncc-headquarters-abuja.jpg"
imageAlt: "Nigerian Communications Commission headquarters building"
seoTitle: "The Enemy Within: Allegations Against NCC Debunked | CyberHost Nigeria"
seoDescription: "A full-length response to the intimidation and bias claims facing the Nigerian Communications Commission, examining the real motives and facts behind the reform resistance."
---

# The Enemy within: How Internal Forces are Undermining the NCC

As an interested party who has followed developments at the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) closely, I feel compelled to respond to Certain media outlets most notably Sahara Reporters publishing alarming claims of fear, intimidation, and victimization within the organization. These claims are deeply misleading and fail to reflect the transparent and merit-based culture that defines the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). 

As an investigative journalist of thirty (30) years covering the public sector, it is unthinkable to suggest that the Commission disregards federal character or deliberately sidelines, certain zones during the 2025 promotion exercise, this assertion is both unfair and unfounded. Promotions at the NCC with its established culture of professionalism are earned, not gifted. They are based on objective performance metrics and the outcome of standardized assessments. The fact that some individuals from specific zones did not make promotion lists is not evidence of bias—it is simply a reflection of the results. Merit must come first.

The writer conducted a thorough investigation, consulting credible sources and interviewing over fifty staff both directorate level, Middle management, line/ operational management’ (junior level) that participated during 2025 staff promotion exercise to verify the allegations made by certain employees regarding bias, intimidation, and victimization. Our discreet inquiry revealed that these claims were fabricated, seemingly intended to project an image of instability within the Commission. For context, a candidate from the Northwest zone, coincidently the same zone as the Executive Vice Chairman, the CEO of the Commission was not promoted simply because he failed to meet the required pass mark even though there was a vacancy in that zone. If there were any agenda to favour certain regions, this would not have happened. This single example speaks volumes about the level of fairness and institutional integrity within the Commission.

Regarding claims about whistleblowers being targeted, it's important for the public to understand that the records and testimonies from long-serving staff and even retirees indicate that some of these individuals have questionable histories. One of them, in fact, was reportedly involved in unethical dealings with a previous employer, leaking sensitive documents in exchange for employment opportunities. Despite internal warnings, he was eventually employed—an act of generosity that appears to have been repaid with sabotage. This is another story for another day.

What is now playing out seems less about justice and more about entitlement—individuals trying to pressure the system into reversing merit-based outcomes to suit personal ambitions. This is not just unacceptable, it is dangerous. Many within the Commission have expressed readiness to defend its core values, and rightly so. A few individuals cannot and should not be allowed to hold the institution to ransom.

The NCC has, for years, stood as a model of regulatory excellence in Nigeria and across Africa. Its achievements under the administration of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu must not be undermined by baseless allegations driven by personal grievances.

Recent media reports—particularly those alleging intimidation, suppression of whistleblowers, and institutional dysfunction—are not only misleading but dangerously attempt to rewrite the truth about an agency that has long been held up as a model of regulatory excellence in Africa. As someone who knows the internal workings of the NCC intimately, I can say with certainty that the Commission has always operated on principles of merit, transparency, and due process. No system is perfect, but to suggest that performance assessments or organizational restructuring amount to witch-hunts is a gross mischaracterization.

What is happening within the Commission is not a crisis, it is transformation. Change, especially one aimed at improving efficiency and aligning with global best practices, often unsettles entrenched interests. Resistance is natural, but when that resistance escalates into blackmail, misinformation, and a coordinated attempt to destabilize the system, it crosses the line from dissent to sabotage.

Let us be clear: the NCC’s recent reforms are not about targeting any group of staff. They are about raising the bar of performance, enforcing accountability, and preparing the Commission for the future. Claims that long-serving or high-performing individuals are being victimized are not only false, they are insulting to the many dedicated professionals—past and present—who have built the Commission’s legacy on hard work and discipline.

It is especially worrying to see a few disgruntled individuals, who have failed to meet transparent benchmarks or qualify through fair processes, now attempting to weaponize the media and manipulate public opinion. These tactics do not reflect a commitment to justice or reform—they reflect personal agendas aimed at disrupting institutional progress.

What seems to be playing out is the classic tension between reform and entitlement. A narrow circle of disgruntled staff—having failed to meet transparent performance benchmarks—now seek to rewrite the narrative by portraying reform as persecution. Their chosen weapons? Anonymous petitions, unfounded allegations, and sensationalist media reports. This is not whistleblowing. It is institutional sabotage, and it must be called out as such.

The NCC is not a place for mediocrity or entitlement. It is a place where excellence is earned, not demanded. I have witnessed first-hand the rigor of its assessments, the fairness of its procedures, and the integrity of its leadership. To now watch that integrity come under attack by those unwilling to subject themselves to the same standards is disheartening.

More concerning is the moral hazard of rewarding noise over merit. If decisions were reversed based on threats, media pressure, or emotional appeals, what message would that send to the many loyal, hardworking staff who play by the rules? It would be a betrayal of everything the NCC stands for. Worse still, it would open the door to a culture were manipulation triumphs over meritocracy.

Those calling for the reversal of reform outcomes should reflect on the long-term implications. Institutions thrive when they uphold their values, even under pressure. They collapse when they succumb to internal rebellion masked as righteous indignation.

I urge the current leadership of the NCC not to waver. Defend the values. Defend the processes. Defend the institution. To the public and media, I say this: beware of the noise of a few trying to disguise self-interest as institutional concern. The NCC remains a world-class institution. Let us not allow the personal grievances of a minority to distort the reality of an organization that continues to serve Nigeria with honor and distinction.
